Financial What?!?
Empire State of Mind.
We get it – moving out means moving up. But for Jay-Z, whose net worth is $500 million, moving out is a breeze.  So, before you create that “first apartment” board on Pinterest and start pinning furniture you think you can afford, listen here: YOU CAN’T.  Well, not yet at least.  If you’re itching to move out of your rent-free, utility-free, lots-of-other-things free housing in favor of the independent lifestyle, then go back and re-read the part about FREE stuff.  There are a lot of hidden costs* with moving out—oh, and that walk-in closet you love, that will cost extra.  But hey, before angry parents start calling us about their kids’ “extended stay,” let’s look at the big picture—NOT the Big Apple.
The *
Big city costs big dollars.
You probably realize that rent, utilities, and groceries go into your monthly housing expenses, but what do those costs actually look like?  For many of us, we’ve moved or are moving to a big city, which means sky-high rents, happy hours, Sunday brunches, and the temptation to live the fast-life.  Maybe home isn’t so bad, huh? Real talk: moving out can be a rewarding experience, but be realistic. The more planning you do, the less you call home for money. 
Back of the Napkin
Umm, window shopping anyone?
Security deposits (typically equal to one month's rent), application fees, utility installation fees, and parking costs are just some of the hidden costs associated with moving out. While we can't give exact figures, here's a numbers example: 
First month’s rent: $1000
Security Deposit: $1000
Application Fee: $50
Utility Installation Fees:
$75 for gas
$75 for electric
$75 for trash/sewer/water
$75 for cable & internet
Furniture: bed, mattress, nightstand, dresser, couch, kitchen table, chairs, TV & stand, etc.: $1,000+
Decorations: $500
Cleaning supplies & paper products: $50
Kitchen Appliances & Needs: pots & pans, spatulas, cutting boards, coffee/tea pot, cups & mugs, wine glasses, mixing tools, knives, cutlery set, pot holders, etc.: $300+
Pantry Basics: spices, oil, condiments, flour, sugar, food staples: $100
Linens: Towels & sheets $200
As you can see, this basic list already puts you at upwards of $4,000. Now, plenty of people will have family help or hand-me-downs, and you can always find cheap options off Craigslist… but, you definitely can’t avoid paying both the security deposit AND rent when you sign that first lease and those utility turn-on fees—they’ll stalk you with every move. Have a car? You guessed it—more money. “Ain’t it fun living in the real world?” Maybe for you, Paramore. 
In the Red
Don't unpack the UHaul just yet...
There are ways to ease the shock of moving away from the nest. 
 
Find a roommate. There are several sites you can check out & view profiles of people in the same boat as you.  Check out this site for a list of The Top 10 Ten Roommate Websites.
 
Once you sign a lease, split up communal items like a couch, kitchen table, and a TV…and you only need one set of knives and cutlery.  A bed and mattress of sorts are a more immediate requirement, but a personal desk can wait.  Get lost in Costco one afternoon—you’ll have enough toilet paper and Lysol wipes to last you the lease.  Here’s a check list to help you get started.
 


Moving out has plenty of perks, but do your homework (GASP, homework?!).  If you can delay moving out until you have a few paychecks under your belt, go give mom & dad a big thank-you hug.  If not, still hug mom & dad, but start planning. 
